Cisco Switch (Catalyst 2960-CG Series) switch connected to a windows 10 laptop through Ethernet swith on port 1 (in the switch). 

A Macbook is connected to port 2 from the same switch.


Console of the switch is also connected through an USB connection. 

Both the devices is being controlled from the local Mac

Windows computer is running Kali Linux inside OF the VMware workstation player

Yersinia was downloaded in the Kali Linux running in the Windows machine

Yarsinia GUI has many tabs: CDP, DHCP, 802.1Q, 802.1X, DTP, HSRP, ISL, MPLS, STP, VTP and Yersinia Log

Start putty from the Kali Linux and connect to the Switch (verify the port of the PC which is being used)

By default the switch has two dhcp pools which were configured (2 VLANS, with 2 different networks with default router and dns-server for connecting the Windows PC and the Macbook)

The switch did not have the routing enabled (hence routing between VLANs) were disabled

Macbook was initialized with IP address - 10.1.2.1/24 by the DHCP server

Windows 10 PC was initialized with IP address - 10.1.1.1/24 by the DHCP server and was verified by using IPCONFIG command in the Windows computer itself

As of now, when tried, the PC was not able to ping the Macbook since the routing was not enabled in the switch (discussed above)

Originally the Kali Linux did not have an IP Address, so it was configured using NAT within the PC to have its own IP Address.

<CDP Attack>
The new IP Address of the Kali Linux running within the Windows PC is 10.1.1.3/24

In the KALI GPU, the details of the switch became visible

In the Switch, the 'sh cdp nei' did not display any CDP neighbours at the moment

A attack was launched (flooding CDP table) from the KALI GUI on the Switch and now in the switch with the 'sh cdp nei' command showed a flood of logs in the console of the switch with the platform being Yersinia

This leads to the CPU in the laptop shoot with a lot of compute usage and later the attack is stopped from the GUI of the KALI Linux

</CDP Attack>

<Spanning-Tree Attack>

The command 'show spanning-tree' in the putty (switch) shows that the switch is the root for both VLAN 1 and VLAN 2.

Now a Spanning-Tree attack is performed in the GUI of the KALI Linux by claiming root role (Yersinia)

Now in the Switch, when we do 'sh spanning-tree' once again, we no longer see this switch to be the root for both the PC and the Mac (because Yarsinia has launched the spanning-tree attack) and the port is also mentioned as GI0/1 as the port which the switch must take to reach the root (which in this case is KALI Linux)

</Spanning-Tree Attack>

<DTP Attack>
There are no trunk ports as of present in the switch - 'show int trunk' and interface g0/1 is configured with a default set-up


From the Kali Linux GUI, under DTP, enable trunking was selected.

Now in the Switch, trunking is enabled on Gi0/1 with encapsulation 802.1Q. This means Kali Linux will have visibility into the Macbook (connected to VLAN2) and will be able to send traffic into VLAN2

The MacBook initiated a DHCP request to the switch in VLAN 2 and it was clearly visible from wireshark which is installed on Kali Linux installed on the Windows PC

Also when the Macbook initiated a Broadcast and a Multicast Ping, both were visible in the Wireshark of Kali Linux through ARP and ICMP respectively

</DTP Attack>


<VTP Attack>

Once typing 'sh vtp status' in the putty, it shows that the VTP domain name as home and the VTP operating mode is the server (for the switch)

A new VLAN was created in the switch and in the Kali Linux a VTP packet was sent and it learnt about the home VTP domain for the switch 

The Third Macbook through which the author is demonstraing live was also connected to the switch in port 3

While doing sh int brief in the putty (switch), it showed that VLAN1, VLAN2 and Gi0/1, Gi02 and G0/3 was up. Gi0/3 was configured as an access port and was put to VLAN 2 through the command switchport access vlan 2

The new Macbook (being used for demoing) was then configured for DHCP and was allotted IP address in VLAN 2

It was shown that the two macbooks were able to ping one another.

An attack was launched from the Yersinia in Kali Linux on 'deleting one vlan' and vlan2 was chosen

The VLAN was now now available while accessing the switch through 'sh vlan brief' 

The two mac would now not be able to connect with each other

Once again VLAN2 was created from the switch and then the VLAN 2 was seen connected to gi0/2 and gi0/3 (seeing through sh vlan brief) and the ping once again started to succeed between the two macs

A new VLAN 5 was created in the switch 

Once again the process, of deleting VLAN 2, from the Kali Linux was repeated and the ping started to fail again between the two macs

From the Kali Linux UI, under VTP, `deleting all VTP vlans` was selected and then  VLAN 10 was created in the Switch for the convergence

When 'sh vlan brief' command was executed, it was noticed, none of the created VLANs - VLAN3, VLAN5, and VLAN10 existed anymore


</VTP Attack>

<DHCP Attack Exhaust Pool>

Now with a different scenario. 

New Scenario: 
A switch is connected to Kali Linux (through port Gi0/0), and the same switch is connected to a Windows 10 Computer(through port Gi0/1). The switch is also connected (through port Gi0/2) to a router(through port Gi0/0) and the router (through port Gi0/1) is connected over the internet.

The windows host is turned off as of now. 

The router is originally assigned as a DHCP server and is provided with DHCP Pool. The subnet that was allocated to this router was 10.1.1.0/24. The IP address of the default router was set to 10.1.1.254 (for port Gi0/0) and set to 172.29.129.203(for port Gi0/1) and the DNS router is set to 8.8.8.8 (Google)

In the router, the port Gi0/0 and port Gi0/1 was transferred from Down to Up (through No Shut)

Ping of www.google.com was tried and found to be successful from the router.

The Kali Linux was booted and the IP address was found to be 10.1.1.3 (by doing IPConfig)

While trying to use 'sh ip dhcp binding' command, it showed it has connected with the Kali Linux with the defined IP address where the Mac address was also visible

From the Kali Linuc, Yarsinia was resumed through the GUI mode. Once in the DHCP mode, Launch DHCP attack was opted. Then from there `sending DISCOVER packet` was opted which means a `DISCOVER Denial of Service` attack.

Once performed, a lot of DHCP packet counts were observed in the Yarsinia GUI and from the router when again 'sh ip dhcp binding' was performed, it now showed whole new bunch of artificially created IP address (from the assigned Network following the Subnet protocol) and mac address configurations. 

This signifies that KALI Linux has exhausted the DHCP pool in the cisco router (from 10.1.1.1 till 10.1.1.253) and subsequently there would be no IP address left in this pool.

By checking with the command - 'sh ip dhcp pool', we get to see that 253 addresses has been leased for the given networks

The Windows 10 machine (host) was booted and even it being connected to the switch via the router, no IP address was allotted to this host and was using the default IP address  - 169.254.54.1

Even with 'ipconfig /renew' command, the Windows 10 host could not be allotted an IP address, since all the IP addresses were consumed after the attack from Yarsinia GUI in the KALI Linux

</DHCP Attack Exhaust Pool>


<DHCP Attack Allocate from Fake Subnet>

With the above prevailing condition, again from the Yarsinia GUI, under DHCP a launch attack was triggered. This time `creating DHCP rogue server` executed. The server id (IP address of KALI Linux Server - 10.1.1.3), Start IP (10.1.1.100) and End IP (10.1.1.150) was allotted. Lease time and Renew time was set to 3600 seconds. Subnet Mask set to 255.255.255.0. 


</DHCP Attack Allocate from Fake Subnet>


<DHCP Attack Set Default Gateway to Kali Linux>
With the above prevailing condition:
The default router was set to be 10.1.1.3 (and not the actual router). The DNS server set as 8.8.8.8 and domain name as `home.com`. 

Now on the windows machine, when typed with ipconfig, it is now allotted an IP address of 10.1.1.100 (which came from the launch attack mode) and the default gateway changed to the Kali Linux Host



</DHCP Attack Set Default Gateway to Kali Linux>



<DHCP Attack Man in the middle attack>

The router by default was set to loopback at 1.1.1.1, but now pinging the same from the PC is returning failed message since it is now flowing to the Kali Linux instead of the Router, and Kali is not forwarding the messages

So in Kali Linux we type - 'sysctl -W net.ipv4.ip_forward=1' for forwarding traffic sent to the Kali Linux. 

Now pinging 1.1.1.1 from the Windows 10 host works perfectly since the Kali is forwarding the traffic to the router.

Now from the windows PC Telnet to the router through 1.1.1.1 was performed via putty. When the password was applied for logging into R1, the password was captured in the Wireshark application hosted inside of Kali Linux

From the PC, a web-browser was opened, and in the browser 1.1.1.1 was typed (using HTTP and not HTTPs) and was signed in to the router, and command were typed inside the routers UI - 'sh ip int brief'. 

Back in Wireshark in Kali with the HTTP mode on, the transactions between the PC and the Router were captured


Also opening some non-encrypted websites like ox.ac.uk, from the PC, the same was captured by Wireshark in Kali Linux

</DHCP Attack Man in the middle attack>


<Poison Arp Caches in PCs>

The windows pc has a IP address of 10.1.1.100 with default gateway as 10.1.1.254 which also happens to be the IP address of the router connected to Gi0/0 of the switch with a mac address of 5001.0009.0000. When we do 'arp -a' in the windows device, we see the windows pc has learnt about the mac address of the router.

With 'ipconfig /all' in the pc, we see that the mac address is 50001.0006.0000 and the ip address as 10.1.1.100

The wireshark was turned on the Windows Host and the arp cache was deleted from the windows through the command - 'arp -d' and it was seen ARP traffic was generated from the pc with the mac address 50001.0006.0000 broadcasted about the mac address with the default gateway having ip address  - 10.1.1.254.

The router was seen to be reverting to the pc with its mac addres (sent as a unicase back to the pc)

In the Switch by typing 'sh mac address-table', we see the mac addresses are populated for the pc and the router. The Kali Linux mac address has not been learnt

In the Kali Linux, the mac address was observed to be 5001.0002.0000 and the Ip address was observed to be 10.1.1.156 and the ping was success from Kali to the router

Now upon using 'sh mac address-table', the mac address of the Kali Linux was learnt


In the Kali Linux - Application -> Sniffing & Spoofing -> ettercap -> sniff -> network int : eth0  (it starts the unified sniffing) -> hosts (scan starts for the subnets) -> host lists (the ip address and the mac address of the windows pc and the router is visible)

Add the router to target 1 and add the windows host to target 2. 

On the windows host the ARP broadcast was visible with the IP address of the kali linux

Next in the ettercap => Mitm -> ARP poisoning -> Sniff remote connections -> Ok. This is for pooing the pc and the router

Now in the Wireshark running in the PC, we see it complains of duplicate IP from two separate mac address

From the PC while using 'arp -a', we see two IP address from the same Mac Address

While starting the wireshark in Kali, we see traffic being sent from the pc to the router is being channelled through the Kali specially accessing the router from the pc using putty through telnet protocol. This is same while accessing the router through the pc and that getting captured in the wireshark in Kali

The running configuration was copied to the PC through tftp by using: 'copy running-config tftp' (the tftp port in the windows pc had to enabled) and all the data sent by the router (including the passwords) to the pc was captured by the wireshark in the Kali Linux

</Poison Arp Caches in PCs>


